
Title: How I Visualize Politicians' Personalities - Book Excerpt

Content:
My new ebook, Visualizing Politicians' Personalities: 2019 Incumbents and Candidates is now available exclusively at https://www.amazon.com/dp/B07XYHQ16R .

[Image of cover]

This article briefly describes what is in the book, and includes an excerpt from it explaining how I create these images.

The ebook includes the images of four incumbents, Donald Trump, Mike Pence, Mitch McConnell and Nancy Pelosi, and nine candidates, Amy Klobuchar, Bernie Sanders, Cory Booker, Elizabeth Warren, Joe Biden, Kamala Harris, Kirsten Gillabrand, Michael Bennet, and Pete Buttigieg.  Content accompanying each image explains how it expresses the individual's personality.

Also included in the ebook is a chapter entitled My Biases which explains how my personality has affected how I vote.  Following these personal revelations is a chapter entitled Bonus Profile.  It contains an image of Steve Bannon's personality and concludes with my take on how he and Donald combined their disparate innate skills to win the presidential election in 2016.

Following is an excerpt from the ebook, Appendix B: Process

[Begin excerpt]
Process
These are the steps used to create these images:
1. Read at least one book per personality, for each person except for Donald, who appears in the media daily, and myself
2. Answer a Jungian typology questionnaire the way the person being analyzed would
3. Plug the results into the Groja© program
4. Generate six to ten images for the personality
5. Pick the best image and save it in a .jpg file
6. Use the gimp image processing program to combine explanatory text with the .jpg file and add the enhanced images to the book
7. Use the .jpg  files to create combo images and add those images to the book
8. Add objective, enlightening content as necessary to provide context and ultimately pull all of the images together into a single cohesive whole
To learn more about drawing personalities, see the About page on Groja.com.
[End excerpt]

Thus, each image in Visualizing Politicians' Personalities: 2019 Incumbents and Candidates distills the content of a biography into a single abstract yet meaningful spiritual portrait and some reinforcing content.

People wondering why I have gone through all this trouble can find more information in the article Piet Mondrian's Optimism - Book Excerpt at https://medium.com/@tomwhartung/piet-mondrians-optimism-book-excerpt-7d9ac56f65e9

The current political landscape is complicated and openly hostile. In this ebook I express the essence of fourteen major players in American politics in objective images representing the personality of each individual in a consistent, intuitive, and non-judgmental fashion.

If you are voting in the primary next year, or just curious about looking past the current trend of superficial and irrelevant identity politics, grab a copy today for the low price of $5.95.

Yes it is an ebook, so it is mobile-friendly and you can read it on your phone!

Thanks!

